LAW
1 Glass Requirement deficiencies are the prime source of project failures.
2 Boehm 1 Errors are most frequent during the requirements and design activities and are the more expensive the later they are removed.
3 Boehm 2 Prototyping (significantly) reduces requirement and design errors, especially for user interfaces.
4 Davis The value of models depends on the view taken, but none is best for all purposes.
5 Curtis Good designs require deep application domain knowledge.
6 Simon Hierarchical structures reduce complexity.
7 Constantine A structure is stable if cohesion is strong and coupling low.
8 Parnas Only what is hidden can be changed without risk.
9 Denert Separation of concerns leads to standard architectures.
10 Fitts-Shneiderman Screen pointing-time is a function of distance and width.
11 DeRemer What applies to small systems does not apply to large ones.
12 Corbató Productivity and reliability depend on the length of a program’s text, independent of language level used.
13 Dijkstra-Mills-Wirth  Well-structured programs have fewer errors and are easier to maintain.
14 Lanergan The larger and more decentralized an organization, the more likely it is that it has reuse potential.
15 McIlroy Software reuse reduces cycle time and increases productivity and quality.
16 Conway A system reflects the organizational structure that built
17 Fagan Inspections significantly increase productivity, quality, and project stability.
18 Porter–Votta Effectiveness of inspections is fairly independent of its organizational form.
19 Basili Perspective-based inspections are (highly) effective and efficient.
20 Hetzel–Myers A combination of different V&V methods outperforms any single method alone.
21 Sackman 1 Online debugging is more efficient than offline debugging.
22 Dijkstra Testing can show the presence but not the absence of errors.
23 Weinberg A developer is unsuited to test his or her code.
24 Pareto–Zipf Approximately 80 percent of defects come from 20 percent of modules.
25 Gray–Serlin Performance testing benefits from system-level benchmarks.
26 Nielsen-Norman Usability is quantifiable.
27 Lehman 1 A system that is used will be changed.
28 Lehman 2 An evolving system increases its complexity, unless work is done to reduce it.
29 Lehman 3 System evolution is determined by a feedback process.
30 Basili–Möller Smaller changes have a higher error density than large ones.
31 Sackman 2 Individual developer performance varies considerably.
32 Nelson–Jones A multitude of factors influence developer productivity.
33 Boehm 3 Development effort is a (non-linear) function of product size.
34 DeMarco–Glass Most cost estimates tend to be too low.
35 Humphrey Mature processes and personal discipline enhance planning, increase productivity, and reduce errors.
36 Brooks Adding manpower to a late project makes it later.
37 Baumol Products replace services through productivity gains.
38 Kupfmüller Humans receive most information through the visual system and store it in a spatially organized memory.
39 Gestalt Humans tend to structure what they see to form cohesive patterns.
40 Miller Short-term memory is limited to 7 ± 2 chunks of information.
41 Krause Multimodal information is easier to remember than single mode.
42 Librarian The more knowledge that is available, the more effort has to be spent on the processes to use it.
43 Apprentice It takes 5000 hours to turn a novice into an expert.
44 Maslow-Herzberg  Human needs and desires are strictly prioritized.
45 Moore The price/performance of processors is halved every 18 months.
46 Hoagland The capacity of magnetic devices increases by a factor of ten every decade.
47 Cooper Wireless bandwidth doubles every 2.5 years.
48 Morris-Ferguson  Architecture wins over technology.
49 Metcalfe The value of a network increases with the square of its users.
50 Bayes The probability that a hypothesis is true increases the more unlikely the new event is that confirms this hypothesis.

HYPOTHESIS
1 Booch 1 Object model reduces communication problems between analysts and users.
2 Booch 2 Object-oriented designs reduce errors and encourage reuse.
3 Bauer-Zemanek  Formal methods significantly reduce design errors, or eliminate them early.
4 Gamma Reusing designs through patterns yields faster and better maintenance.
5 Dahl–Goldberg Object-oriented programming reduces errors and encourages reuse.
6 Beck–Fowler Agile programming methods reduce the impact of requirement changes.
7 Basili–Boehm COTS-based software does not eliminate the key development risks.
8 Mills–Jones Quality entails productivity.
9 Mays Error prevention is better than error removal.
10 Hoare Proving programs solves the problems of correctness, documentation, and compatibility.
11 Gutjahr Partition testing is more effective than random testing.
12 Weyuker The adequacy of a coverage criterion can only be intuitively defined.
13 Endres-Glatthaar The test suite needed to verify an arithmetic path expression can be determined.
14 Hamlet Suspicion-based testing can be more effective than most other approaches.
15 McCabe Complexity metrics are good predictors of post-release reliability and maintainability.
16 Wilde Object-oriented programs are difficult to maintain.
17 Boehm Project risks can be resolved or mitigated by addressing them early.
18 McGregor Motivation requires integration and participation.
19 Hawthorne Group behavior depends on the level of attention given.
20 Marketer One unsatisfied customer can hurt more than two satisfied customers can help.
21 Shaw–Garlan A sound architecture significantly reduces development and maintenance costs.
22 Bayer In spite of disk capacity increases, data access can be kept efficient.
23 Codd Databases can be independent of devices and applications.
24 Engelbart Conceptual integrity is the result of a consistent mental model.
25 Basili–Rombach Measurements require both goals and models.

CONJECTURE
1 For COTS products, costs and risks ofmanufacturing can approach those of development.
2 Distribution ends where the customer wants it to end.
3 Prevention of software piracy by technical means is almost impossible.
4 Installability must be designed in.
5 The larger the system, the greater the administration effort that is needed.
6 Any system can be tuned.
7 Human-based methods can only be studied empirically.
8 Process improvements require action-based feedback.
9 Learning is best accelerated by a combination of controlled experiments and case studies.
10 Measurements are always based on actually used models rather than on desired ones.
11 Empirical results are transferable only if abstracted and packaged with context.
12 Empirically based modelsmature from understanding to explaining and predicting capability.